# Welcome
Welcome to ncgopher, a ncurses client for gemini and gopher. You can use the following key commands:

```
|------------+--------------------------------|
| Key        | Command                        |
|------------+--------------------------------|
| Arrow keys | Move around in text            |
| j/k        | Move around in text (like vi)  |
| Enter      | Open the link under the cursor |
| Esc        | Go to menubar                  |
| Space      | Scroll down one page           |
| g          | Open new URL                   |
| b          | Navigate back                  |
| q          | Close application              |
| s          | Save current page              |
| r          | Reload current page            |
| i          | Show link under cursor         |
| n          | Go to next link                |
| p          | Go to previous link            |
| a          | Add bookmark for current page  |
| ?          | Display the key map again      |
|------------+--------------------------------|
```

# What is this?
ncgopher is a browser for the gemini and the gopher protocols, sometimes also collectively known as the "small internet".

=> about:sites See some pages to start of from.

## Gopher
Gopher was deveolped in 1991 at the University of Minnesota, and named after the school's mascot. Gopher is a menu-driven interface that allows a user to browse for text information served off of various gopher servers.
=> gopher://gopherpedia.com:70/1/about some information about gopher (and gopherpedia) at gopherpedia, a Wikipedia mirror for the gopher protocol

## Gemini
Gemini is a new application-level internet protocol for the distribution of arbitrary files, with some special consideration for serving a lightweight hypertext format which facilitates linking between files.
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/ more official resources about gemini
And actually, the document you are seeing here is written in Gemini's text format. You can take a look at this page in the sources in src/about/help.gmi !

## What do you mean "sources"?
ncgopher is free (libre) and open source software licensed under the "2-clause BSD" or "FreeBSD" license.  It is written in the Rust programming language. The source code is versioned in a git repository available through GitHub:
=> https://github.com/jansc/ncgopher
If you have any issues or feel something important is missing, you can raise that as an issue there. Or feel free to contribute there as well!
Copyright © 2019-2021 The ncgopher Authors. Parts of the status bar implementation are Copyright © 2019, Henrik Friedrichsen.
